# COLLISION-WARNING-SYSTEM-USING-OBJECT-DETECTION-PLUS-ULTRASONIC-SENSOR
Now a days Automation plays a crucial role in mankind. Escpecially many popular prestigious companies like Tesla, Kia-Hyundai, Ford, Audi are on the race for manfacturing Autonomous cars. But, this technology will be appreciated when it will work with maximum efficiency and simultaneously when it is made available to the general public even. And Auto parking and collison avoidance at traffic is a challenging and complex issue. So I build an model named COLLISION WARNING SYSTEM USING OBJECT DETECTION PLUS ULTRASONIC SENSOR to overcome these issues at low budget with high efficiency. I used HC-SR04 (ultrasonic sensor) for collision avoidance and distance measurement. Ultra sonic sensor works on the principle of sound transmission as Ultrasonic sensors emit short, high-frequency sound pulses at regular intervals. If they strike an object, then they are reflected back as echo signals to the sensor, which itself computes the distance to the target based on the time-span between emitting the signal and receiving the echo. Generally ultrasonic sensor ranges upto 11 meters. And I used a ultrasonic sensor ranging upto 4 meters. And I performed objection detection using PYTHON and OPEN-CV. If the distance between an object and my model is below 30 cm then my model gives an alert using beep sound. And car takes the decision with respect to the near objects. This model is going to be a crucial part in my AUTONOMOUS CAR PROJECT.
